In this video we'll look at the network and guest introspection services provided by service composer.
So would if we want to integrate some third party solution that does guest introspection like for example
let's say that we have a third party virus scanning appliance and it can scan virtual machines and detect
viruses and if it does detect a virus on a virtual machine what it can do is it can tag that VM.
So here we see the virtual machine called app 3 has been tagged with this virus tag my anti-virus solution
has found a virus on the VM and has tagged we can create a security group called virus group let's say.
And that security group can have a dynamic inclusion criteria that says.
And even ATMs that have this virus tag should be included in this security group.
So the virus group security group includes all via SMS with the virus tag.
That's a dynamic inclusion criteria.
And we can apply a highly restrictive security policy to that security group basically saying we're
going to allow virus group to communicate with the anti virus solution and we're going to allow the
anti virus solution to communicate with the virus group and anything else from that virus group is going
to be blocked.
So now we've created this level of isolation that is really strong.
Right.
My virus scanning solution detected a virus tagged to that VM based on that tag that VM was dropped
into a new security group where it was completely isolated from everything except for the virus scanning
solution.
And now that virus can be resolved and when it is the virus scanning solution will remove that tag and
the virtual machine will be removed from this virus.
Group Security Group that's a great example of how guest introspection can protect our environment by
isolating a virtual machine with some sort of security risk.
Let's look at another example.
Here we've got some sort of sensitive data on a virtual machine.
And we've deployed the V.M. where data security solution.
So this works very similar to the anti-virus example that we just saw.
Only instead of looking for viruses it's looking for sensitive data.
This is very useful if you're subject to compliance regulations.
So let's say for example you're subject to PCI compliance.
So it's very important that there's not credit card data where there shouldn't be credit card data.
And let's say that a credit card number is found on the virtual machine at 3 well VM where data security
will tag that virtual machine with a security tag.
In this case we're calling the security tags CC.
And we can then create a security group with dynamic inclusion that says any virtual machines with the
CC tag should be dropped into a security group called credit card and will allow the data loss prevention
system to communicate with that credit card security group.
But if that credit card security group wants to reach out and connect with anything else or if anything
else is trying to connect to it.
It's going to be quarantined it's going to be blocked.
So now we don't have to worry about this sensitive data potentially leaving our network as soon as VM
or data security detects that sensitive data that virtual machine is automatically isolated.
Think about what this will do from a compliance perspective.
It's really powerful stuff.
And that's the purpose of V.M. we're data security.
It's a powerful compliance tool that will automatically tag VAMC and includes a lot of pre-built compliance
templates.
About 80 different compliance templates including Hippe PCI and many others.
And it doesn't require any software on the virtual machine to be installed.
You'll enable it using surface composer where we can dynamically remove tags if the sensitive data is
no longer present.
So a virtual machine will be automatically on quarantined when that sensitive data is removed.
Now we've looked at the guest introspection capabilities of service composer.
Now let's take a moment to look at network introspection.
So we have some service that's running out in our network and the service doesn't need access to the
guest operating system.
So for example let's say we're running an intrusion prevention system and we've got a virtual machine
called app 1 and the app one VM is part of some security group that we have specified needs to be inspected
by this network intrusion prevention service.
So now a packet comes into our network that's destined for this virtual machine.
And when that traffic hits the distributed firewall kernel module it will be redirected.
To the intrusion prevention system and assuming no malicious traffic is found the packet is then passed
along to the virtual machine.
You could also configure the security group as the traffic source if you want to analyze outbound traffic
coming out of our VM.
So just know that any of these third party services must be registered with NSX manager in order for
them to work.
And that process varies a little bit with each different vendor.
But the key point that I want to make sure we get across here is that unlike guest introspection this
is not examining the guest operating system in any way.
Our policy here is redirecting traffic to some service that we've registered using service composer.
So if my virtual machine sends or receives some traffic that matches this policy that traffic is going
to be relayed to the intrusion prevention system a virtual appliance so that it can scan that information
prior to passing that traffic along.
So in review we've seen here how service composer can automatically apply security policies and how
we can include our virtual machines in a security group using either a dynamic or static.
We've also seen that we can utilize third party tools and we can integrate them to provide protection
either using guest introspection or network introspection.
Our guest introspection tools are going to examine the guest operating system of our virtual machines
for things like sensitive data or viruses or we can use service composer to redirect traffic to a network
introspection tool such as an intrusion prevention system.
Finally when you create a new security policy you can choose a parent policy that it will inherit rules
from.
So you could create multiple security policies that have parent policies and they can inherit those
rules from the parent policy as well.